{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue35;\red255\green255\blue255;\red13\green80\blue209;
\red69\green77\blue87;\red132\green132\blue132;\red0\green0\blue0;\red26\green71\blue224;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14118\c16078\c18431;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c3529\c41176\c85490;
\cssrgb\c34118\c37647\c41569;\cssrgb\c58824\c58824\c58824;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c1961;\cssrgb\c12941\c38431\c90196;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 global covid cases:\

\f1\b0 \ul link\ulnone : {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/tree/master/csse_covid_19_data/csse_covid_19_time_series"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/tree/master/csse_covid_19_data/csse_covid_19_time_series}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul \ulc2 refer to:\ulnone  Attribute the data as the "COVID-19 Data Repository by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins University" or "JHU CSSE COVID-19 Data" for short, and the url: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19}}.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \ul \ulc2 cite:\ulnone  For publications that use the data, please cite the following publication: "Dong E, Du H, Gardner L. An interactive web-based dashboard to track COVID-19 in real time. Lancet Inf Dis. 20(5):533-534. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30120-1"\
\

\f3\b global vaccinations\

\f2\b0 \ul link:\ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data/vaccinations"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data/vaccinations}}\
\
\ul cite: \cf5 \ulnone Mathieu, E., Ritchie, H., Ortiz-Ospina, E. 
\f4\i et al.
\f2\i0  A global database of COVID-19 vaccinations. 
\f4\i Nat Hum Behav
\f2\i0  (2021). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-021-01122-8"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-021-01122-8}}\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b \cf2 gisaid variant data
\f2\b0 \
\ul link:\ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.epicov.org/epi3/cfrontend#bb7df"}}{\fldrslt https://www.epicov.org/epi3/cfrontend#bb7df}} >\ul  \ulnone downloads > Variants VoC/VoI (xlsx)\
\
\ul cite:\ulnone  not really sure? check again at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://platform.epicov.org/epi3/frontend#3e5de3"}}{\fldrslt https://platform.epicov.org/epi3/frontend#3e5de3}} \
\

\f3\b OWID testing data
\f2\b0 \
\ul link:\ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus-testing"}}{\fldrslt https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus-testing}}\
\
\ul cite:\ulnone  \cf6 \cb7 Hasell, J., Mathieu, E., Beltekian, D. et al. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-020-00688-8"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 A cross-country database of COVID-19 testing. Sci Data 7, 345 (2020)}}}